(swift swooshing)
One interesting problem that we run into
when we build single page applications with React is that
when you click from page to page or
when you change stuff, it's not actually changing the page.
It's just changing the URL
and we're dynamically loading in new data
and re-rendering new components and all that stuff.
And you lose the little spinner
that shows in the browser, and
in the bottom left-hand corner a lot of browsers
will show you when it's actually requesting resources
or waiting for something.
Whereas with Next.js and most React applications that
you use a router, you're just changing the URL.
So, how do we visually notify the user that something
is happening behind the scenes?
What we're doing here in the "Sick Fits" application
is we are using this thing called NProgress.
NProgress is just a little library that's used on...
you probably are familiar with n-progress...
Let's see, you probably are pretty familiar
with seeing these things on websites
where you have a little top bar here
and you start it off and you can increment it.
You can keep incrementing and
then when you're done, you run it.
So we're going to hook into the router event
of Next.js in order to do that so
let's just take a quick look here.
You will notice that sometimes when you visit
a page -- do you see right now -- see how that
took like a second or two?
You may be saying like, "Oh wow.
"Next.js sure is slow.
"I would never want that. It should be instant."
The reason why that's happening in Next.js
is that because they don't generate
all the pages when you start.
They only generate them on demand,
and then they'll up date them as you are editing the code.
So that's a development-only thing.
Now if I click around they're instant.
But the very first time that I hit a page,
it takes a second to actually here...
Let me bring this over right now and I'll go to the...
Actually let me kill it and start it again.
Let's just show you what my terminal
is actually going to say.
So it's Building page: forward-slash, right?
So I visited that and
now I'm going to go to forward-slash Sell.
Click on it and it says, Building page: /sell.
Also, it will build them on demand as you visit them,
however when we go to production, it will pre-build
all of those pages, and we also have the ability
to attach this things called a pre-fetch to our link tag
which will actually go out and fetch the data
that is needed for that page.
So not only is it built, but the data could be
pre-fetched for that specific page so that
when you click on something, it's gonna be
instant cut-over and you're gonna see a nice quick little,
like that, nice quick little red line
pop up on the top.
So, how do we do that?
Well, we need to import the Router from Next.js
and I like to do this in Header.js, however,
it actually doesn't matter which page you're doing it in.
So we're gonna go here and I'm going to bring my Nav there.
I'm going to import the Router
from next forward-slash router
and we're gonna import Nprogress.
Oh, I have a little text expander that
anytime I type two capitals at the start of a word
it will correct me, but I need it here.
From 'nprogress'.
That's a package we have.
And then we simply listen for the events
are on the router.
If you go to the docs for Next.js and
you go to Routing, you can see here you can
route with link which is something that we've done, right?
We have a link with a href on it.
We are also going to be looking at links
where you can pass an a path in a query.
We'll be getting into that.
However, you ca also route Imperatively.
Which means that you can...
Ideally you would route when you click a link.
However, sometimes you need to
change the page with code, right?
And the way that you do that is you
access the Router from importing it
and you can change the page by pushing
and what we care about is all of these events.
So onRouteChangeStart, onRouteChangeComplete,
on ChangeError, on HistoryChange
on ChangeStart, on ChangeComplete.
So let's just go ahead and we are going to be
listening on these three right here
just onRouteChangeStart, onRouteChangeComplete,
and onRouteChangeError.
Those are all on the router that we've imported.
We simply set each of them to be a function.
So let's just console that log.
Can we? Yeah triggered.
And then go to our application and
we only have two pages right now.
Home page and Sell.
So let's just "sell".
You see how as we go, when we clear it out again.
I click on one, onRouteChangeStart triggered,
onRouteChangeComplete triggered and then...
There is also, we're listening for error
just because if something happens on error
then we are going to display an error to them.
We want to stop that, so what we need to go into here
is when it starts we type NProgress dot start.
Let's see if that works.
Now you see?
And we didn't have to import any html or anything like that.
So it just by importing it,
it will just stick that thing at the top.
Then also in our Meta, I've also
linked the external CSS that is required for that.
Then when the change is complete,
we just NProgress dot done.
And we also, if there's an error we'll done it as well.
And there we go.
(sings ta-da-da-da!)
Lookin' good!
One little problem that's unrelated to this,
but you see when I refresh it? It's like...
You got like a split second of the CSS not working?
And that's the next little thing that we need to tackle
is that Style Components by default doesn't work
on the server and in order for us to render
like what happens with Nextjs is that
when you visit a page it will render it on the server
and then the client side will pick it up from there
and it will start re-rendering it on the client, right?
So we have React on the server
and we have React on the front end
and Next.js takes care of all of that.
However, sometimes when you get
into these packages like Style Components,
you need a little bit more config in order to make it
render the CSS on the client side
as well as on the server side.
So let's fix that right now because
when we refresh we should be instantly showing us
this CSS and we shouldn't get that
flash of un-styled for a split second.